# Summary of Anne Milgram: Why smart statistics are the key to fighting crime

Anne Milgram talks about her journey from instinct-based decision making in criminal justice to data-driven and analytical methods. She highlights the problems in the American criminal justice system, including the subjective nature of decisions like detainment and release. To address this, Milgram created a universal risk assessment tool that focuses on highly predictive risk factors and provides judges with an objective measure of risk. This tool can be used alongside instinct and experience to make better decisions in the interest of public safety. By using data and analytics, the criminal justice system can be transformed into a safer, fairer, and more just system that reduces prison costs and uses money balling to win the game.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, former Attorney General Anne Milgram discusses her transformation from a prosecutor making decisions based on instinct and experience to wanting data and analytics to be introduced in criminal justice systems. She describes how she found out that most criminal justice agencies did not track the things that mattered and that law enforcement officers were trying to fight crime with yellow Post-it notes. Milgram implemented data-driven policing, which proved effective in reducing crime rates in New Jersey by introducing smart data and rigorous statistical analysis to figure out how to pick players that would help them win games, much like moneyball did for the Oakland A’s.

00:05:00
In this section, Anne Milgram discusses the problems in the American criminal justice system and how using data and analytics can help transform it. She talks about the critical decision of whether to detain or release an arrested individual, which impacts everything from sentencing to drug treatment. Milgram says that judges are making these decisions subjectively, leading to a disproportionately high number of low-risk offenders in jail and high-risk offenders released. She decided to build a universal risk assessment tool that collects data from 1.5 million cases across the US and focuses on nine specific highly-predictive risk factors. With this tool, judges can have an objective, scientific measure of risk and make better decisions in the interest of public safety.

00:10:00
In this section, Anne Milgram discusses a data-driven risk assessment tool that judges can use to determine the likelihood of someone committing a new crime, committing an act of violence, and returning to court. The tool, which judges can use alongside their instinct and experience, is created from a universal dataset and provides a dashboard with a scale for new criminal activity score, elevated risk of violence, and failure to appear score. By using data and analytics, the American criminal justice system can be transformed into a safer, fairer, and more just system that reduces prison costs and uses money balling to win the game.

