# Summary of Art that reveals how technology frames reality | Jiabao Li

Artist and engineer Jiabao Li has created a series of perceptual machines that demonstrate how technology is subtly shaping our perception of reality. One example she gives is a red allergy helmet that creates an artificial allergy to the color red, simulating a hypersensitivity to it. The helmet can reshape reality and project an augmented reality, highlighting how we're being mediated and warning that we're vulnerable to various kinds of mental allergies. Li also discusses a conceptual web browser plug-in that can help people notice things they would usually ignore, such as hidden or small-filtered voices, and show how much of their perception is being commodified. Li believes technology can frame reality and provide a context, but it can also be used to retrain perception and lead to people seeing each other differently.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Jiabao Li, an artist and engineer, discusses how technology is subtly shaping our perception of reality. To draw attention to this, she created a series of perceptual machines that defamiliarize and question how we see the world. For example, she created a helmet that creates an artificial allergy to the color red, simulating a hypersensitivity to it. While in nocebo mode, the wearer experiences hyperallergy, making the red things look bigger. On the other hand, in placebo mode, the red shrinks, and it serves as an artificial cure for the allergy. Jiabao Li chose the color red for its intensity, emotional value, high visibility, and political nature. The helmet reshapes reality and projects into our eyes, creating an augmented reality. She warns that if we're not aware of how we're being mediated, we'll keep being vulnerable to various kinds of mental allergies.

00:05:00
In this section, Jiabao Li talks about a conceptual web browser plug-in that can help people notice things they would usually ignore, such as hidden or small-filtered voices. The plug-in could also show how much of a person's perception is being commodified and how much money they should be earning when they see an ad on a web page. Li believes technology is not neutral, as it frames reality and provides a context, but it can also be used to uncover blind spots and retrain perception, leading to how people see each other differently.

