# Summary of Caitria and Morgan O'Neill: How to step up in the face of disaster

Caitria and Morgan O'Neill share their experience of the EF3 tornado in Monson, Massachusetts, and how it changed their lives, eventually leading to the creation of a disaster recovery software that could be deployed by local organizations after every disaster. They discuss the challenges of disaster recovery efforts and how data can enhance recovery, outlining the three main problems with the current system and their solution to these problems. The O'Neills stress the importance of emergency preparedness, working to make software the norm, empowering locals with tools and data to improve their communities in the long term. Overall, their software offers a better disaster recovery solution that can work alongside other aid organizations but put the power in the hands of the community.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section of the video, Caitria and Morgan O'Neill share their experience of the EF3 tornado in Monson, Massachusetts and how it changed their lives. They talk about how they started organizing the recovery efforts in their town, using their skills in social media and technology, and giving answers to questions that no one knew the answer to. They realized that leveraging technology for faster recovery should be a no-brainer, and decided to build a recovery in a box, which could be deployed by any local organizer after every disaster. They point out three main problems with the current system of disaster recovery and outline their solution to these problems.

00:05:00
In this section, the O’Neills discuss the challenges of disaster relief efforts and how data can enhance recovery. They point out that disaster recovery differs from political campaigns where organizing needs to be gradually built, but quickly mobilized in disasters. Disaster relief success lies in getting the right information and tools to those who will step up in their communities, as well as in emergency preparedness. They discuss how their software, launched in Dallas after tornadoes, provided ease in needs reporting, donations databasing, and remote volunteer access. They share a need to prepare before disasters by working to make sure software becomes the norm, training people who can run the software, and filling it with crucial information ahead of time. Additionally, they discuss the concept of empowering locals with tools and data to continue growing and working together to improve their communities in the long term. Overall, these tools offer a better disaster recovery solution that can work alongside other aid organizations but put the power in the hands of the community.

