# Summary of Catarina Mota: Play with smart materials

Catarina Mota discusses the importance of understanding smart materials, such as plastics that change shape and conductive ink, which will soon become prevalent in our daily lives. She highlights the Open Materials platform, which shares experiments, information, and encourages collaboration on smart materials. Mota believes that knowledge of the components of our world is important for shaping our behavior, health, and quality of life. Additionally, she provides examples of innovators who used simple and cheap materials to create new technologies, highlighting the importance of acquiring knowledge about emerging technologies to ensure we have a say in the making of our future.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Catarina Mota discusses how the maker community and the open-source model have revived the DIY practice of knowing how things work and are made. However, she believes we should take this knowledge to the next level - understanding the components that things are made of, particularly smart materials such as plastics that change shape, conductive ink, and thermochromic pigments. These materials will soon be prevalent in our daily lives and knowing how to work with them will be important. Mota and her colleague started Open Materials, a platform for sharing experiments, publishing information, and encouraging collaboration on smart materials. She believes understanding the components of the world we live in is important for shaping our behavior, health, and quality of life.

00:05:00
In this section, the speaker discusses how innovation has been fueled by tinkerers who are often amateurs instead of experts. She then goes on to provide two examples of innovators who used simple and cheap materials to create new technologies. Jordan Bunker followed a scientific paper to create conductive ink using off-the-shelf materials and tools, and published his findings so others could reproduce it. Hannah Perner-Wilson created a Kit-of-No-Parts to highlight the expressive qualities of materials and created a series of paper speakers using a wide range of materials, and also shared her findings with the public. The speaker emphasizes that acquiring knowledge about emerging technologies is vital in ensuring we have a say in the making of our future.

