# Summary of Facebook's role in Brexit — and the threat to democracy | Carole Cadwalladr

Carole Cadwalladr's investigation into Facebook's role in the Brexit referendum reveals how Facebook ads and posts drove the opinions of Brexit voters, and how crimes were most likely committed. She argues that this highlights how democracy is subverted by tech companies and that they must take responsibility for their role in allowing technology to disrupt electoral laws. Cadwalladr also highlights how Silicon Valley must cooperate with investigators for democracy to be won back.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Carole Cadwalladr talks about her investigation into the role that Facebook played in the Brexit referendum. She visited a town in Wales that had one of the highest leave votes in the country and found that they had received a significant amount of funding from the EU. She met locals who voiced their frustration with immigration and the refugees, despite their town having one of the lowest rates of immigration in the country. She later discovered that these opinions that drove the Brexit vote were mostly formed on Facebook through ads and posts that the social media giant remains reluctant to reveal. Cadwalladr argues that crimes were committed during the Brexit referendum, and it is imperative that Facebook cooperates with investigators.

00:05:00
In this section, the speaker explains how the strict laws that were meant to prevent voter manipulation during Brexit don't work anymore, thanks to the ability to spend unlimited amounts on Facebook, Google and YouTube ads, which are essentially black boxes. The Vote Leave campaign, for instance, laundered nearly three-quarters of a million pounds, released a range of disinformation, and unleashed an unprecedented electoral fraud in Britain for 100 years, two weeks prior to the Brexit vote. The Leave.EU campaign also broke electoral and data laws and their prime financier is being referred to the NCA because no one knows if the money came from Britain or elsewhere. Farage worked closely with Trump which generated Brexit, and we know it's the same people, the same companies, the same data, the same techniques, and the same use of hate and fear that we see being sowed online in France, Hungary, Brazil, Myanmar, and New Zealand.

00:10:00
In this section, Carole Cadwalladr shares how Facebook refused to give her the answers she needed and even threatened to sue her. She then addresses Silicon Valley and asks the likes of Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, and Jack Dorsey to take responsibility for their role in allowing technology to disrupt 100 years of electoral laws. She emphasizes that our democracy is broken, and technology's role in the Brexit vote demonstrates that liberal democracy is subverted by tech companies who allow spreading lies in darkness through paid ads driven by illegal cash. Carole emphasizes that democracy cannot be guaranteed, and we must fight to win it back.

