# Summary of Fredy Peccerelli: A forensic anthropologist who brings closure for the “disappeared"

Fredy Peccerelli is a forensic anthropologist who has dedicated his career to providing closure for families of the “Desaparecidos” of Guatemala's 36-year armed conflict. Peccerelli and his team work by using DNA evidence to identify skeletal remains and connect them to missing persons. He shares two cases that his team helped solve, including a mass grave site at a military base that was used to train peacekeepers and Grave 15, which contained the remains of women and children. Through science, archaeology, anthropology, and genetics, Peccerelli and his team are bringing justice to those responsible for atrocities.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, we learn about the work of forensic anthropologist, Fredy Peccerelli, who works to bring closure to the families of the “Desaparecidos” - the 40,000 people who went missing during Guatemala's 36-year armed conflict. The victims were mostly civilians, with 83% being of Mayan descent and only 17% of European descent. Even worse, most of the crimes were committed by the very people who were supposed to protect them, including the police and military. Peccerelli and his team work by giving families information and letting them choose to provide a piece of themselves for comparison of DNA with recovered skeletal remains. Peccerelli explains his methodology with two cases, one of which includes a military diary that gave information of the victims’ execution along with a code and date. Peccerelli and his team exhumed 220 bodies from 53 graves in a military base, including Sergio Saul Linares and Amancio Villatoro, whose DNA matched those of their families. Their executions were dated in the diary log and enabled Peccerelli and his team to connect the dots and provide closure for their families.

00:05:00
In this section, forensic anthropologist Fredy Peccerelli shares two cases in which his team identified and gave back bodies to families, providing evidence for trials of human rights violations. In one case, a military base used to train peacekeepers was found to be a mass grave site, with evidence of executions in a country that ironically stands for peace. In another case, Grave 15 contained the remains of women and children who had been taken away by the army in 1982, resulting in an emotional reunion for one family. Through science, archaeology, anthropology, and genetics, Peccerelli and his team are giving a voice to the helpless and bringing justice to those responsible for atrocities.

