# Summary of How we read each other's minds | Rebecca Saxe

In this video, Rebecca Saxe discusses how the brain makes it easy for us to understand and read other people's minds by sharing animal-like structures in the brain. She explains how a special brain region, the right temporo-parietal junction (RTPJ), is exclusively used for thinking about other people's thoughts and that children start to develop this ability at age three but aren't adult-like until age seven. The use of Trans-Cranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) temporarily disorganizes the function of neurons in the brain, which is helpful in explaining differences in how adults think and judge others based on differences in the RTPJ brain region. Saxe admits that the hard problem of consciousness may not be solved, but studying the distinctive parts of the human brain is a project in understanding how unique human things work.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Rebecca Saxe talks about the problem of other minds, which is the difficulty of knowing what somebody else wants or believes. She introduces a different problem, which is “how is it so easy to know other minds?” and goes on to explain that the machine we use for thinking other minds, the brain, is made up of pieces we share with all other animals. She then talks about three things related to the discovery of a special brain region for thinking about other people's thoughts, including the realization that a special region of the brain, the right temporo-parietal junction, is used exclusively for this purpose. Specifically, she discussed that this brain region is not present in young children but develops as they learn to understand other people's desires and thoughts.

00:05:00
In this section of the video, Rebecca Saxe talks about testing children's ability to understand other people's thoughts through a puzzle about a sandwich. She found that children start to develop this ability at age three, but it is not until age seven that they have an adult-like response. The researcher also shares that the same brain region is used by children when they think about other people, but it's not quite like the adult brain. Saxe's lab was able to put children into a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan to see what was going on in their brain as they developed the ability to understand other people's thoughts. Additionally, they conducted a test to see if differences among adults in how they think about other people's thoughts could be explained in terms of differences in the same brain region.

00:10:00
In this section, Rebecca Saxe discusses how the use of Trans-Cranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), can temporarily disorganize the function of neurons in the brain, which can affect a person's moral judgment. The tool enables researchers to interfere with the function of the RTPJ brain region, which differentiates personal from moral wrongdoing. The study shows how it's possible to change a person's judgment from more blame to less blame and vice versa. Using the TMS tool, researchers can help explain the differences in how adults think and judge other people based on differences in the brain region. Saxe emphasizes that TMS isn't surreptitious, and that it's hard to get small changes using the technique. Although TMS is impressive for what it tells us about the brain, it's crucial to take into consideration that the tool doesn't change people's moral judgments when making action choices; it mostly changes people's ability to judge other people's actions.

00:15:00
In this section, Rebecca Saxe is asked if her research on studying the human brain could lead to any recommendations in education to help children make fairer moral judgments, and she admits that it's one of the idealistic hopes. However, she also mentions that the whole research program of studying distinctive parts of the human brain is brand new, and it's a project of understanding how uniquely human things such as learning language, abstract concepts, and thinking about other people's thoughts work. She also mentions that the hard problem of consciousness may not be solved as it's called "hard" for a reason.

