# Summary of How to create a world where no one dies waiting for a transplant | Luhan Yang

Scientist Luhan Yang discusses the issue of organ supply and demand, noting that 115,000 patients in the US alone need a lifesaving organ transplant, while 20 will die waiting every day. Yang introduces xenotransplantation and explains how gene-editing technology can be used to grow human-transplantable organs in pigs. She discusses the hurdles of rejection and the infectious nature of the porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV). Yang then details how her startup eGenesis used CRISPR to eliminate all 62 copies of the PERV virus in Laika, the first pig born without PERV, paving the way for a world without organ shortage. The next step is to remove any antigen of the pigs that could be rejected by the human immune system, with the ultimate goal of translating this science into medicine to save lives.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, the speaker discusses the issue of organ supply and demand, stating that there are currently around 115,000 patients in need of a lifesaving organ transplant in the US alone. She notes that although roughly 100 people will receive an organ each day, 20 others will die waiting. The speaker further touches on the issue of organ trafficking in Asia and highlights the need for a solution to the crisis. She then introduces xenotransplantation (the process of transplanting animal organs into humans) and explains how using gene-editing technology, human-transplantable organs can be safely grown in pigs. She goes on to explain the two main hurdles of xenotransplantation, including the problem of rejection and the infectious nature of the porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV).

00:05:00
In this section, Luhan Yang, a scientist, explains that using the gene-editing tool CRISPR, she and her colleagues made changes in a pig's cell to create virus-free and human-immune-compatible cells, which were then cloned to produce a piglet with organs genetically modified to hopefully not be rejected by the human immune system, addressing the organ shortage crisis. They then worked to eliminate the possibility of transmission of the virus from pig cells to humans by eliminating all 62 copies of the PERV virus utilizing CRISPR. Their startup, eGenesis, produced Laika, the first pig born without PERV, leading to a new frontier of science and medicine.

00:10:00
In this section, Luhan Yang talks about a world where organ shortage ceases to exist, where people with diabetes do not rely on insulin every mealtime, and where patients with kidney failure are relieved from the burden of dialysis. Yang believes the tool to tackle these problems is Laika, a pig that has been genetically modified to grow organs that are compatible with humans. The next steps now are to remove any antigen of the pigs that could be rejected by the human immune system and to learn from cancer how the pig organ can circumvent the immune system to avoid attack. While there are issues to address, such as immunology, Yang's goal is to translate this cutting-edge science into medicine to save lives.

