# Summary of How we'll become cyborgs and extend human potential | Hugh Herr

In his talk, Hugh Herr discusses the concept of "NeuroEmbodied Design" and presents the agonist-antagonist myoneural interface (AMI) as a revolutionary solution for connecting nerves within residuum to an external prosthesis, allowing for normal sensations to be experienced by amputees. He also delves into the idea of neurological embodiment, where a synthetic limb connected bidirectionally to a person's nervous system could become an integral part of their body, leading to a future where humans can extend their bodies into non-anthropomorphic structures and become superheroes, unrecognizable from what we are today.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, MIT professor Hugh Herr talks about his bionic legs, which allow him to skip, dance, and run. He explains that while he has a sophisticated bionic technology that can sense his neural signals to activate muscle movement, it can't input information back into his nervous system. He talks about the concept of "NeuroEmbodied Design", a design process in which designers contemplate a future in which technology has been carefully integrated within our nature, extending human capability beyond innate or physiological levels. Herr also discusses the current amputation paradigm and the need for dynamic muscle interactions for control and proprioception, which NeuroEmbodied Design aims to address through surgical and regenerative processes.

00:05:00
In this section, Hugh Herr introduces the agonist-antagonist myoneural interface or AMI, a method created at MIT to connect nerves within residuum to an external prosthesis, addressing the problem of eliminating normal sensations associated with amputees. The AMI, involving the surgical attachment of two muscles, agonist to an antagonist on amputee residuum, causes biological sensors within the muscle-tendon to send signals through nerve relaying information of limb movements to the brain. Jim Ewing- a former mountain climber who suffered injuries from a 50-feet fall was fitted with bionic limbs through this process which enabled him to have normal sensations of ankle-foot movements and positions, proving the success of the AMI procedure.

00:10:00
In this section of the speech, Hugh Herr discusses the concept of neurological embodiment and how it could redefine what it means to be human. By connecting a person's nervous system bidirectionally to a synthetic limb, the individual could begin to feel that the prosthesis is an integral part of their body rather than a separate tool, so much to the point where they wouldn't feel like a cyborg. Herr discusses how neuro-embodied design can help humans become superheroes. They may soon extend their bodies into non-anthropomorphic structures, such as wings, controlling and feeling each wing movement within the nervous system, leading to a world where humans will be unrecognizable in morphology and dynamics from what we are today.

