# Summary of How to take a picture of a black hole | Katie Bouman

Katie Bouman discusses the difficulties of capturing an image of a black hole and explains the process of creating a computational telescope the size of the Earth to solve these issues. She also explains how imaging algorithms fill in gaps to reconstruct the black hole image and avoid imposing their biases. The team used puzzle pieces from different image types to reconstruct the black hole image, and their algorithm was successful in piecing together everyday images to create the first pictures of a black hole. Bouman encourages everyone to push the boundaries of science.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Katie Bouman explains the difficulties in capturing a photograph of a black hole, which involves an international team of scientists, an Earth-sized telescope, and an algorithm that puts together the final picture. The black hole casts a shadow on the bright material in the background and creates a ring of light. However, due to a phenomenon called diffraction, even the most powerful optical telescopes on Earth cannot get close enough to the resolution required to image an object the size of an orange on the surface of the moon, which is the same size that the ring appears from Earth. Therefore, the solution is to create a computational telescope the size of the Earth by connecting telescopes from around the world. The network of telescopes is scheduled to take its very first picture of a black hole next year.

00:05:00
In this section, Katie Bouman explains the process of taking a picture of a black hole using data from telescopes located in different parts of the world. She compares the process to a giant spinning disco ball and explains how imaging algorithms fill in the gaps to reconstruct the black hole image. She also discusses how the algorithms she designed find the most reasonable image that fits the telescope measurements and explains how they avoid imposing their own cultural biases on the image assumptions. Bouman shows a simulation of the reconstruction process to give hope that researchers will soon take the first image of a black hole and determine the size of its ring.

00:10:00
In this section, Katie Bouman explains how her team used puzzle pieces from different types of images to reconstruct a black hole image. They used pieces from black hole simulation images, astronomical non-black hole objects, and everyday images like the ones people take with their personal camera. When they received the same image from all different sets of puzzle pieces, they became more confident that the image assumptions they were making weren't biasing the final image. Their algorithm was successful in piecing together everyday images to create the first pictures of a black hole, thanks to the interdisciplinary expertise of their team. Bouman encourages everyone to push the boundaries of science, even if it may seem as mysterious as a black hole.

