# Summary of How we need to remake the internet | Jaron Lanier

Jaron Lanier discusses the need to create a culture around technology that is beautiful, meaningful, and creatively alluring to draw us away from committing mass suicide. He also points out that the belief that everything online should be free and accessible to all was at odds with the entrepreneurs who were celebrated for their power to disrupt and innovate. Advertising became the solution to this problem, but it has transformed into "behavior modification empires." Lanier argues for charging people for online services through subscriptions and suggests deleting social media as an option if necessary.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Jaron Lanier speaks about the idealism and challenges of the digital culture of the 1980s, emphasizing the need to create a culture around technology that is beautiful, meaningful, and creatively alluring to draw us away from committing mass suicide. He describes the potential of virtual reality to be like waking-state intentional dreaming, a new thing that would be like a conversation with new depth, meaning, connections, and coordination. However, he also emphasizes the dark potential of the technology that could turn the world into a society that could not survive its problems. Jaron points out that we made a particular mistake back in the '90s, which we must understand, and undo it to survive.

00:05:00
In this section, Jaron Lanier discusses the contrasting ethos that emerged during the early days of the internet. The belief that everything online should be free and accessible to all was at odds with the entrepreneurs who were celebrated for their power to disrupt and innovate. Advertising became the solution to this problem, but as algorithms became more advanced and customers became more seasoned, advertising shifted from something relatively innocuous into what Lanier describes as "behavior modification empires." Social media platforms today use social punishment and social reward as symbolic punishment and reward. This is much cheaper than building trust or fostering real relationships as negative stimuli are cheaper than positive stimuli.

00:10:00
In this section, technology philosopher Jaron Lanier discusses how the internet and social media have transformed into behavior modification empires, predominantly dominated by Facebook and Google, to such an extent that users have become victims of its negative aspect where negative emotions are over-amplified, and the entire society is unable to communicate and share without being influenced by third-party agencies. Lanier argues that behavior change is possible by charging people for these services through subscriptions, a model like Netflix or Amazon, where people can access high-quality, informative, and reliable medical and science advice online. Deleting social media is always an option if behavior modification empires refuse to change, he concludes.

