# Summary of Ilissa Ocko: The fastest way to slow climate change now | TED Countdown

Ilissa Ocko advocates the reduction of methane emissions as the most efficient opportunity to counter climate change quickly. Though methane has an insignificant pollution percentage, its warming effect is greater than CO2, and technologies are available to decrease half of human-related methane. The most significant sources of methane emissions are energy, waste management, and agriculture, where capturing and using methane from landfills, sending food waste to composting centers, introducing better-quality feed and feed supplements to the livestock sector or improving water management in flooded fields during rice production can reduce emissions. Ocko urges governments and industries to adopt these strategies to minimize climate change risks in the short term.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Ilissa Ocko explains how methane is a greenhouse gas that is responsible for around 1% of pollution but has a warming effect far greater than CO2, and if we reduce methane, we can reduce a lot of warming right away. Cutting methane is the single most effective opportunity to slow climate change immediately since methane acts fast, and we can act fast since we have technologies available right now to cut methane emissions from human activities in half. Methane emissions mainly come from energy, waste management, and agriculture. Governments and industries have not implemented easy fixes to prevent methane leakages because they lack data on the amount emitted, but the ability to detect these leaks has rapidly advanced in recent years, including handheld instruments, sensors on aircraft and drones, and satellites like MethaneSAT, which is expected to be launch-ready next year.

00:05:00
In this section, Ilissa Ocko proposes solutions to reduce methane emissions from three large sources: energy, waste, and agriculture. For energy, she highlights the potential of capturing and using methane from landfills, which can be a powerful fuel source. For waste management, she suggests sending food waste to composting centers instead of landfills, which can reduce methane emissions. With respect to agriculture - which she cites as the hardest of the three to address - she notes that the livestock sector is the number one source of methane emissions. However, higher-quality feed and feed supplements that can suppress methane production are two potential solutions. Similarly, rice production also creates ideal conditions for methane production, but by improving how we manage the required water in flooded fields, emissions can be reduced. Ocko argues that if we act rapidly and deploy strategies to reduce methane emissions, we can experience the benefits quickly and make progress towards reducing climate change risks in the near term.

