# Summary of Ink made of air pollution | Anirudh Sharma

Anirudh Sharma talks about his mission to capture pollution and recycle it into ink. After experimenting with candle soot, vegetable oil, and vodka, he founded Graviky Labs in India, where pollution is collected and turned into ink. A global brand approached Sharma, and together they launched a successful art campaign using the ink. AIR-INK, the product created by Graviky Labs, became popular, and the company had to figure out how to handle the influx of polluters sending samples of pollution. However, they found a solution: the same pollution could be transformed into a valuable product such as a T-shirt through AIR-INK. The invention had artists painting black-and-white, pollution-made artworks all around the world.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Anirudh Sharma discusses his experimentation with capturing polluting particles and using them to create ink. Sharma was motivated by a picture he took in India, which depicted a diesel generator on one side and a triangular black swatch resulting from the generator's emissions on the other. Understanding that conventional black ink is produced by burning fossil fuels, Sharma wondered if the pollution emitted by factories, cars, and engines around the world could be captured and recycled to make black ink. After conducting initial experiments with candle soot, vegetable oil, and vodka, Sharma founded Graviky Labs in India, where they capture pollution and recycle it into ink. A global brand subsequently approached Sharma, and together, they launched a celebrated global art campaign using the ink that Sharma's company had created from pollution.

00:05:00
In this section, the speaker discusses the deployment of the AIR-INK found in his previous job. After developing the idea in the lab, a corporation offered to help, allowing the team to see its invention in use. However, as the demand for the product increased, a new issue soon emerged, that said issue was how to address the influx of polluters sending samples asking what to do with the pollution. But with the mechanics of AIR-INK in place, the same pollution being sent to the team could be made into a valuable product such as a T-shirt. Painting with AIR-INK assumed a pop-culture image with artists all around the world creating black-and-white, pollution-made artworks with it.

