# Summary of Jack Horner: Shape-shifting dinosaurs

Paleontologist Jack Horner discusses how early dinosaur research led to a misunderstanding about their size and shape and how egos among scientists led to the naming of different dinosaurs without realizing they were just species at different ages. He explains how Dr. Peter Dodson in 1975 realized that dinosaurs grew like birds rather than reptiles and how understanding this ontogeny is vital for insights into how they changed throughout their life cycle and why they went extinct. Horner also explores different types of dinosaurs and how they can be closely related, as well as how names stick and how scientists can determine which dinosaurs should be combined and which should be discarded based on bone histology and ontogeny. He concludes that only seven dinosaur varieties were left during the end-Cretaceous period.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, paleontologist Jack Horner discusses the fascination that children have with dinosaurs and explains how early dinosaur research led to a misunderstanding about their size and shape. Horner explains how egos among scientists led to the naming of different dinosaurs, without realizing that these were just species at different ages. It wasn’t until Dr. Peter Dodson in 1975 realized that dinosaurs grew like birds, rather than reptiles, that the understanding of their development changed. Understanding this ontogeny is vital because it can give insights into how dinosaurs changed throughout their life cycle, and it can also help us comprehend how and why they went extinct.

00:05:00
In this section, paleontologist Jack Horner talks about the problems of identifying young dinosaurs and how scientists love to name new dinosaurs. He notes that Peter Dodson was able to show how inaccuracies can occur because of differences between young and adult dinosaurs. Horner goes on to explain how scientists can test whether a dinosaur is young or not by cutting their bones. He shows 12 primary dinosaurs that went extinct and evaluates them. In particular, he looks at three dinosaurs that are named Pachycephalosaurus, and he explains how these dinosaurs are closely related, in spite of looking different.

00:10:00
In this section of the video, paleontologist Jack Horner discusses the three types of Pachycephalosaurs, Dracorex being the smallest and most primitive, Stygimoloch being the middle size and with a growing dome on its head, and Pachycephalosaurus being the largest with a solid dome. He theorizes that they are actually just a growth series of the same animal. Moving on to Triceratops, which was first discovered in the 1800s, before 2000 no one had ever found a juvenile specimen because everyone wanted a big one. Horner collected a bunch of little ones and discovered that as the juveniles grow up, their horns curve backward and then as they get older the horns grow forward. He also found that Torosaurus, a similar dinosaur but bigger and with holes in its shield, is actually a grown-up Triceratops, as he discovered transitional specimens between the two.

00:15:00
In this section, Jack Horner discusses how dinosaur names stick and how paleontologists can determine which dinosaurs should be combined and which should be discarded based on bone histology and ontogeny. He particularly focuses on how T. Rex and Nanotyrannus have different teeth counts and bone maturity due to ontogeny, which leads to the argument that Nanotyrannus is just a juvenile T. Rex. By following these methods, he gets to the conclusion that we have only seven dinosaur varieties left during the end-Cretaceous period.

