# Summary of Janet Echelman: Taking imagination seriously

Artist Janet Echelman uses fishnet to create sculptures that are idiosyncratic, delicate, and ephemeral in nature. Her journey began collaborating with fishermen and lace makers to create sculptures, and now she engineers fiber that can survive ultraviolet rays, salt, air, and pollution to create more permanent installations. Echelman is exploring new directions in her work, including using dry mist shaped by people's interactions to trace the paths of subway trains and creating a sculpture to represent the interconnectedness of 35 nations in the Americas using a fiber 15 times stronger than steel that can tie into existing buildings.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, artist Janet Echelman shares her journey of creating sculptures using an unlikely material - fishnet. Starting with making sculptures in collaboration with fishermen and lace makers, Echelman went on to create a million and a half hand-tied knots sculpture that was installed in Madrid. The sculpture caught the attention of urbanist Manual Sola-Morales who asked her to build a permanent piece for the city of Porto, Portugal. But creating a permanent sculpture meant that Echelman would have to give up the idiosyncratic, delicate and ephemeral nature of her art. She had to engineer a fiber that could survive ultraviolet rays, salt, air, pollution, and at the same time remain soft enough to move fluidly in the wind. With the help of an aeronautical engineer, Echelman succeeded in engineering and building a 50,000-square-foot lace net that brought life to an otherwise bland intersection in Porto.

00:05:00
In this section, Janet Echelman discusses two new directions in her work. The first involves using tiny water particles to create a dry mist that can be shaped by people who can interact with it without getting wet. She plans to use this material to trace the paths of subway trains above ground in real-time. The second direction is inspired by the challenge of representing the interconnectedness of the 35 nations of the Americas in a sculpture. After researching a recent earthquake in Chile, Echelman contacted NOAA to obtain data on the tsunami and created a sculpture called "1.26," which refers to the number of microseconds that the Earth's day was shortened. To build this sculpture, she had to replace the steel armature with a soft, fine mesh made of a fiber 15 times stronger than steel, enabling her to build skyscraper-sized sculptures that can tie into existing buildings and become part of the fabric of the city.

