# Summary of Laurie Santos: How monkeys mirror human irrationality

Cognitive psychologist Laurie Santos studies the decision-making abilities of brown capuchin monkeys in order to differentiate between the possibility that humans make mistakes due to the complexity and lack of understanding of the environments they create or human beings are innately problematic. Her research team taught monkeys to use tokens as currency and trade with human salesmen, tracking their behavior in the monkey marketplace where they had to choose between different vendors' prices and items. The monkeys showed a preference for the risky option in situations where they thought they were experiencing losses, due to a tendency to think in relative terms and loss aversion, leading Santos to argue that these biases will be difficult to overcome due to evolutionary history, but humans can recognize and adapt to them.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Laurie Santos discusses the paradox of how even though humans are known to be smart, we can make irrational decisions. She suggests that the mistakes we make aren't always the result of bad decisions by a few individuals but that many people will make predictable errors in particular contexts that they are immuned to learning from. She proposes that the source of our mistakes could either be because of the complexity and lack of understanding of the environments we create or that we humans are just designed badly. Santos's objective with her work is to differentiate between the two possibilities, and in order to do that, she is studying the brown capuchin monkey to test their decision-making abilities.

00:05:00
In this section, cognitive psychologist Laurie Santos discusses her experiments on how monkeys learn to use tokens as currency and trade with human salesmen. The researchers taught the monkeys to exchange tokens for food and tracked their decision-making in the monkey marketplace, where they had to choose between different vendors' prices and items. Interestingly, the monkeys' behavior closely resembled human economic decision-making, leading the team to wonder if monkeys demonstrate the same irrational biases as humans when it comes to handling money, such as a lack of saving.

00:10:00
In this section, Laurie Santos explains an experiment she conducted with the monkeys to see if they would make the same mistakes as humans when it comes to financial decisions. The experiment involved giving the monkeys a choice between a safe option where they would receive a consistent bonus every time or a risky option where they could potentially get a bigger bonus or nothing at all, depending on a coin toss. The monkeys showed a preference for the risky option in situations where they thought they were experiencing losses because, like humans, they become more risky in a loss mindset due to two psychological biases: a tendency to think in relative terms instead of absolute terms and loss aversion.

00:15:00
In this section, Laurie Santos explains that monkeys, when given financial currency, choose qualitatively and quantitatively similar to human test subjects. Like humans, the monkeys prefer to play it safe and follow the same patterns in every trial. When given choices between one and three grapes, monkeys like humans become more risky depending on how the experiment started which shows that monkeys, like humans, evaluate things relative to what they have and treat losses differently than gains. Santos argues that the biases that lead investors to make poor financial decisions will be difficult to overcome as they are shaped by evolutionary history; however, humans can recognize their limitations, accept them and use design to adapt.

