# Summary of Machine intelligence makes human morals more important | Zeynep Tufekci

The video discusses the possible dangers of artificial intelligence and how it can make human morals more important. It argues that we need to hold on to human values and ethics, and not outsource our responsibilities to machines.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
Machine intelligence is making human morals more important, as it is becoming easier for computers to understand and process human emotions. This power is both good and bad, as we don't understand what the machines have learned and may not be able to control them.

00:05:00
This 1-paragraph summary of the video discusses the issue of machine intelligence making human morals more important. It argues that, as these systems are trained on data generated by our actions, they may be biased and may lead to a steady but stealthy shutting out of the job market of people with higher risk of depression.

00:10:00
In this video, researchers discuss how machine intelligence can amplify human biases, and how these biases can have life-altering consequences. They also discuss how black-box algorithms can be used in sentencing and parole decisions, and how Facebook's algorithm is biased in favor of engagement over content.

00:15:00
The video discusses the possible dangers of artificial intelligence and how it can make human morals more important. It argues that we need to hold on to human values and ethics, and not outsource our responsibilities to machines.

