# Summary of Philip Evans: How data will transform business

Philip Evans discusses the impact of changing technology on business strategy, as the falling transaction costs invalidate the premises of overwhelming mass and value chain that form the backbone of business strategy. He also discusses the impact of the increase in digital data, and how it connects to enable individuals, organizations, and researchers to see more patterns than they would in analog data. The natural scaling of activities beyond institutional boundaries, thanks to technology and plummeting transaction costs, is driving the structure of industries to become more horizontal, leading to significant changes in business strategy, which need to accommodate different motivations and think about strategy as the curation of horizontal structures.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Philip Evans discusses the relationship between business strategy and technology, pointing out that business strategy has always been based on assumptions about technology that are now changing quite dramatically. The concept of business strategy was developed based on Bruce Henderson and Michael Porter's ideas of overwhelming mass to achieve competitive advantage and the value chain, respectively. However, the premises that formed the backbone of business strategy are being invalidated due to the rapidly falling transaction costs, which have profound consequences on the glue that holds value chains together. Consequently, there is less need for vertically-integrated organizations, and value chains can break up, opening the possibility for a competitor in one business to attack or disintermediate a competitor in another.

00:05:00
In this section, Philip Evans discusses how the increase of digital data presents a new sea change for the economy, comparable to the impact of the shift from the industrial era to the information era. According to him, the first and second decade of the internet economy saw a shift from the internet being a noun to internet as a verb. This shift was in response to the emergence of user-generated content and social networks that led to the collapse of economies of scale. The third decade, he says, will be defined by the increase in data and how it connects. The increase of data and its digital substitute will enable individuals, organizations and researchers to see more patterns than they would in analog data. Specifically, the mapping of genomic makeup will drive a revolution in healthcare. As genomic mapping becomes increasingly clinical, combining genomic data with clinical data, data about drug interactions and data from medical sensors could lead to new discoveries in medicine.

00:10:00
In this section, Philip Evans discusses how the natural scaling of activities beyond institutional boundaries, thanks to technology and plummeting transaction costs, is driving the structure of industries to become more horizontal. Instead of conventional corporate production, scalable communities can substitute for it, allowing new types of institutions to achieve the scale required. This horizontalization of industry structures leads to significant changes in business strategy, which need to accommodate different motivations and think about strategy as the curation of horizontal structures. It requires a fundamentally different approach to the structure of business, whether in the public or private sector, and ultimately makes strategy interesting again.

