# Summary of Religions and babies | Hans Rosling

In this video, Hans Rosling debunks the idea that income or religion determine the number of children born to women, showing that survival rates, education, work, and family planning are the primary factors. He explains that the world has reached peak child, meaning that the number of children is no longer growing, and that the population will continue to climb to over 10 billion. Rosling emphasizes the need to plan resources and energy for human life on the planet, focusing on improving family planning and child survival rates for the poorest people. Religion has little impact on the number of babies per woman, and all religions can adapt to this new reality.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Hans Rosling discusses the relationship between religion and the number of babies per woman. He shows a map his team created that shows the majority religion of each country, with the bubbles representing the population size. At this point, he shows a graph from 1960, which shows that only the rich Christian countries had few babies per woman, except for Japan. Whereas, countries with Islam and Eastern religions both had six to seven children per woman, regardless of their income level. However, as years have progressed, the number of babies per woman has been reduced across all majority religion categories in Muslim and Christian countries, while Eastern religions continue to be consistent with having many babies per woman.

00:05:00
In this section, Hans Rosling discusses how a decrease in the number of children per woman has occurred across the world, with 80% of humans living in countries that have two babies or less per woman. Income and religion do not determine the number of children per woman, with significant differences found between countries with the same religion and income level. Instead, survival rates, work, education, and family planning are the main factors that influence the number of children per woman. Additionally, countries with high mortality rates experience faster population growth because the birth of a new child compensates for the death of a previous one.

00:10:00
In this section of the video, Hans Rosling explains that the world has reached peak child and the number of children is no longer growing, while the world population will breach 10 billion before it stops growing. He shows that this increase in population happened without life expectancy growing longer or a rise in childbirths. Rosling clarifies that religion has little to do with the number of babies born to a woman and that all religions can maintain their traditions and adapt to this new world. To sustain the human population, it is essential to provide better family planning and improve child survival rates for the poorest people. Rosling ends the segment by emphasizing the need to plan resources and energy for human beings on this planet, keeping in mind that the population will be 10 billion.

