# Summary of SpaceX's Supersized Starship Rocket and the Future of Galactic Exploration | Jennifer Heldmann | TED

In her TED talk, Jennifer Heldmann discusses the development of supersized spacecraft, using the example of SpaceX's Starship vehicle and its potential to revolutionize space exploration. The Starship vehicle will be fully reusable, reducing the cost of flights, and able to launch over 100 metric tons of payload to various destinations including the Moon and Mars, opening up space exploration to more people. She emphasizes the importance of using In-Situ Resource Utilization (ISRU) and living off the land while establishing a sustained human presence on Mars. The opportunities this technology affords us are unprecedented and are completely changing the paradigm for space exploration and human history.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, the speaker discusses the development of supersized spacecraft for the first time ever, using the example of SpaceX's Starship vehicle, which will be fully reusable and able to launch more payload with more power than any other spacecraft. This reduces the cost of flights and allows for more flights, revolutionizing space exploration and opening it up to more people. The Starship vehicle itself will be able to launch over 100 metric tons of payload to various destinations, including the Moon and Mars. This means that the aerospace industry is moving towards mass-produced, large-scale operations in space, and new, transformational technologies are changing the paradigm for space exploration.

00:05:00
In this section, Jennifer Heldmann explains the process of refilling the tanks of Starships in space before sending them out to journey across the solar system, which can explore many more promising areas for discovering life in the universe. She envisions sending a submarine to explore the subsurface ocean on Europa and Enceladus. Larger space telescopes can also be launched by a fully assembled telescope that comes with these larger vehicles, such as Starships. Furthermore, she emphasizes the importance of the successful, safe landing of uncrewed Starships on Mars before sending humans there.

00:10:00
In this section, Jennifer Heldmann discusses the importance of using In-Situ Resource Utilization (ISRU) and living off the land while establishing a sustained human presence on Mars. Heldmann explains that relying on Earth is not a feasible option and using local resources is critical to human survival. Water ice is identified as a necessary resource and sending heavy-duty construction machinery to build infrastructure for a large-scale presence on Mars is made possible with the Starship. Searching for indigenous Martian life is also a top priority science question, and due diligence must be taken to ensure landing sites are safe. The opportunities that supersized spacecraft afford us are unprecedented, and they’re completely changing the paradigm for space exploration and human history.

