# Summary of Stuart Firestein: The pursuit of ignorance

Stuart Firestein, a neuroscientist, in his TED talk discusses the importance of ignorance in the scientific community. He reveals that scientists spend more time discussing and researching what they do not know, this in turn leads to the pursuit of new discoveries. Thoroughly conscious ignorance builds the basis of every real advance in science, and science's goal is to generate more questions rather than finding answers to current theories. Instead of the traditional education systems that teach students to memorize facts for exams, Firestein advocates ingraining a passion for science by creating an environment that nurtures curiosity and inquiry.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Stuart Firestein talks about the difference between the way science is perceived and the way he believes it is pursued. He explains that the black cat proverb is a good description of how science works, with researchers bumbling around in the dark, trying to figure out what's there. Science isn't a well-ordered mechanism for understanding the world, but rather an ongoing process of discovery. Scientists, in fact, spend more time talking about what they don't know than what they do, and it's this "ignorance" that's exhilarating and interesting. Firestein even started teaching a course on ignorance, which has been quite popular among researchers. He stresses that ignorance in this context doesn't mean stupidity, but rather a recognition of what's still left to be learned.

00:05:00
In this section, Stuart Firestein discusses a different kind of ignorance—one that is not pejorative, but comes from a gap in our communal knowledge or something that is not yet fully known. According to him, thoroughly conscious ignorance is the prelude to every real advance in science. Science is all about getting to more ignorance, which is why it generates more questions than it answers. The model of science that we want to take is the one where we use the knowledge we have to make better ignorance, to come up with higher-quality ignorance, because good ignorance is what makes a good question.

00:10:00
In this section, Stuart Firestein uses a graph to explain the importance of asking questions and the dangers of being too focused on how much you know instead of what you can ask about a topic. He emphasizes that the purpose of knowing a lot is to ask lots of questions and bring forward meaningful inquiries rather than just being knowledgeable. He presents some examples of questions in neuroscience, such as studying the motor system or the process by which molecules turn into perceptions. Firestein emphasizes the need to "abide by ignorance" by recognizing it as a lasting part of the scientific pursuit and learning how to ask informed questions. He also questions the traditional education system's emphasis on memorizing information rather than cultivating a passion for asking and finding answers to interesting questions.

00:15:00
In this section, Stuart Firestein discusses how the business model for education needs to change from selling facts, to giving students a taste for what's outside of the facts. He explains that the current educational system is efficient at teaching students facts for exams, but it is not efficient at providing a lifelong passion for science. Firestein believes that testing methods need to change so that students are being evaluated and given feedback rather than being weeded out. He suggests creating tests that ask "What is x?" and the answer is "I don't know." Instead of selecting for students who memorize facts, Firestein promotes creating an environment that allows people to find out the answers to their questions.

