# Summary of The weird history of the "sex chromosomes" | Molly Webster

Molly Webster delves into the complicated history of the sex chromosomes. The simplistic idea that "X equals girl and Y equals boy" is no longer sufficient, as people can have many different combinations of X and Y. The popular theory that an extra Y chromosome could lead to criminal behavior was disproven in 1980. Webster also discusses the story of María José Martínez-Patiño, who was denied the ability to compete with women despite identifying as female and presenting as female due to a chromosome test revealing XY chromosomes. The speaker suggests that maybe it's time to gain a broader understanding of chromosomes and move beyond simplistic gender labels.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Molly Webster explains how sex chromosomes - X and Y - were discovered by two scientists looking at insect cells. While all other chromosomes in a human body are numbered from 1 to 22, the sex chromosomes take the form of X and Y. X is associated with females, while Y is associated with males. While reporting for Radiolab and its series on sex and gender - "Gonads," Molly learned that the history of X and Y was much more complex than just their role in sex determination. They were hesitant to be given the name of "sex chromosomes," and the scientists feared this would limit science's potential to explore beyond just basic biology.

00:05:00
In this section, Molly Webster explores the complex history of the sex chromosomes, highlighting that the simplistic idea that "X equals girl and Y equals boy" is no longer tenable. In the 1960s, it was discovered that individuals could be a whole host of different combinations of X and Y, giving rise to differing biological sexes. She discusses the discovery of XYY and the once-popular theory that an extra Y chromosome could be connected to criminal behavior. The theory was disproven in 1980, but highlights the tendency to view chromosomes through gendered lenses. Webster also discusses the story of Spanish hurdler María José Martínez-Patiño, who was denied the opportunity to race with women after a chromosome test revealed XY chromosomes, even though she was fully female on the outside.

00:10:00
In this section, the speaker highlights how assigning sex to a specific location in the body often makes humans believe that they can tell someone more about themselves than they know. Several conversations happening in the sports world and suggestions to genetically analyze transgender individuals and tell them their sex identity questions whether society considers it as just a form of shorthand or takes it literally. The speaker argues that the X chromosome is essential for human survival, and every person on the planet has it. However, labeling it as a female chromosome ignores the 96% of chromosome that has nothing to do with gonads. Therefore, maybe it's time to think more broadly and gain insights as people, as scientists.

