# Summary of The incredible potential of flexible, soft robots | Giada Gerboni

In a talk titled "The incredible potential of flexible, soft robots," Giada Gerboni advocates for a new wave of robotics that focuses on soft materials and distributed actuation, called soft robotics. She explains the limitations of traditional, stiff robots and provides examples of soft robots, including a walking robot, robotic fish and octopus, and a growing robot. Gerboni emphasizes the importance of soft robots in the medical field and concludes by stating that while there is still much to explore in terms of controlling and adding sensors to these flexible machines, she believes that they will ultimately prove to be safer and more valuable in helping people.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, the speaker focuses on the limitations of traditional robots whose emphasis is on speed and precision but whose rigid links and motors make them dangerous and ineffective in the real world as their bodies cannot deform to adjust to the environment. The speaker advocates for a new wave of robotics, soft robotics, which emulates how nature uses soft materials frequently and stiff materials sparingly in creating machines for environmental interaction. Soft robotics utilizes distributed actuation and compliant bodies made of materials or structures capable of large deformations to succeed in a large variety of situations without much planning or calculations ahead. Building soft robots is different from stiff robotics, as you have to shape the flexible material in a certain way to create an actuator without using stiff structures, and this way, the soft robot can handle unexpected situations.

00:05:00
In this section, Giada Gerboni discusses various examples of soft robots, including a walking robot developed at Harvard University, a robotic fish and octopus from MIT, and a growing robot from Stanford. She also emphasizes the importance of soft robots in the medical field for minimally invasive procedures, specifically highlighting a soft camera robot for surgery that was developed by her previous research group in Europe. Gerboni concludes by stating that robotics is still in the beginning stages of exploring how to properly control and put sensors on these flexible structures, but ultimately believes that softer and safer robots will be a valuable asset in helping people.

