# Summary of The "dead zone" of the Gulf of Mexico | Nancy Rabalais

The "dead zone" in the Gulf of Mexico is caused by high levels of nitrogen and phosphorus from agricultural fertilizers running off into the Mississippi River, causing the excessive growth of phytoplankton which depletes oxygen in the water and suffocated species. Nancy Rabalais highlights the responsibility of scientists to use their research to make a positive impact on environmental policy. She suggests sustainable agriculture, precision fertilizing, and educating communities about the negative effects of toxins in their water systems are effective ways to combat the problem. Although acknowledging that significant political and social will are needed to change agricultural practices in the US, Rabalais remains hopeful that science can be translated into policy, inspiring a cleaner and healthier environment.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, the video explains how nitrogen and phosphorus from farmland fertilizers and drains off into the Mississippi River, which eventually leads to the formation of dead zones in the Gulf of Mexico due to the excessive growth of phytoplankton. The high abundance of phytoplankton suffocates species due to the depletion of oxygen in the water. Though the dead zones are not visible from the surface, Nancy Rabalais, a scientist, can tell through high-tech equipment on research vessels and oxygen meters. She points out that the high nitrogen levels have tripled and the phosphorus has doubled since the 1950s, causing excessive growth of phytoplankton and leading to the formation of dead zones.

00:05:00
In this section, Nancy Rabalais discusses the dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico, a human-induced phenomenon caused by agriculture and fertilizers. She suggests more sustainable agriculture and precision fertilizing, as well as educating communities about the negative effects of toxins in their own water systems, as effective ways to combat the problem. Rabalais emphasizes the responsibility of scientists to use their research to make a positive impact on environmental policy, and having collaborated with both the media and politicians alike, has done just that in passing the Snowe-Breaux Bill and creating goals for environmental improvement.

00:10:00
In this section, Nancy Rabalais challenges people, especially in the Midwest, to change their ways of treating the land and reduce their reliance on nitrogen in order to improve the environment and reduce the size of the dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico. She suggests small steps that can be taken, like reducing meat intake, using non-ethanol gasoline and getting better gas mileage, but acknowledges that changing agriculture practice in the US will require significant political and social will. Rabalais remains hopeful that by translating science into policy, we can all work together towards a cleaner environment.

