# Summary of The Problem with Plastics | Patricia Villarrubia-Gómez | TED

Patricia Villarrubia-Gómez explains the systemic perspective we need to have when considering plastics, which aren't just a consumer or a waste management problem but also a climate problem. Microplastics pose risks to human health, and plastic pollution negatively impacts aquatic food webs and the capacity of oceans to absorb and sequester carbon, contributing to climate change long beyond their disposal. There are solutions, and worldwide entrepreneurs, companies, social movements, and scientists are collaborating to create new designs and materials that can substitute traditional single-use plastic.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Patricia Villarrubia-Gómez explains the systemic perspective we need to have when considering plastics, which are not just a consumer or a waste management problem, but also a climate problem. Plastics are made from fossil fuel hydrocarbons, and their production generates greenhouse gases such as CO2 and methane. The use of single-use plastics generates even further emissions because they are used for just a few minutes or a few hours before being thrown away, and our recycling system is broken. Plastics that enter the environment start a process of breaking down into microplastics, which emit powerful greenhouse gases and can impair the growth of microbial communities. Plastics and their chemical additives will remain in the environment for centuries and degrade ecological processes, contributing to climate change long beyond their moment of disposal.

00:05:00
In this section, Patricia Villarubia-Gomez highlights the negative impact of plastic pollution on the functioning of aquatic food webs, the capacity of the oceans to absorb and sequester carbon, and the reflective properties of snow and ice, which accelerates melting of glaciers and polar ice. Microplastics are everywhere, and they pose risks to human health, as they are found in our bloodstream, lungs, and in the placenta of unborn children. There is a lot of urgency for us to address the plastic pollution problem as a climate problem that needs to be solved in a systemic way. There are solutions, and worldwide entrepreneurs, companies, social movements, and scientists are collaborating to create new designs and materials that can substitute traditional single-use plastic.

