# Summary of The Fascinating Physics of Insect Pee | Saad Bhamla | TED

In a TED Talk, scientist Saad Bhamla discusses his fascination with insects and their unique solutions to problems in nature, specifically focusing on the way in which insects pee. Bhamla studied the Homalodisca vitripennis (glassy-winged sharpshooter), and discovered that their pee droplets were launched at extreme accelerations of 40 g-forces, faster than the insect itself. Insects store energy in droplets, launched due to surface tension, and this ability evolved due to their low-energy diet which requires frequent urination. The practical applications of this work could help design more efficient water-ejector systems, but Bhamla's main goal is to inspire curiosity and ignite children's interest in discovering the marvelous in the mundane.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, a scientist shares about his fascination with bugs and their ability to come up with unique solutions to problems in nature. He focuses on the way in which insects pee, and how it is a closed system: what goes in must come out. He specifically speaks about the Homalodisca vitripennis (glassy-winged sharpshooter), which is a sapsucker that feeds on plants and is known to spread bacteria that results in diseases and deaths in plants. When studying this insect’s pee, he discovered that they form droplets and fling them with extreme accelerations of 40 g-forces, which is 40 times faster than a cheetah can sprint. This led him to delve deeper into the process and discover that the droplets are actually faster in air than the flicker itself.

00:05:00
In this section, the speaker explains that insects, like sharpshooters, store energy in droplets that are launched at high speeds due to the surface tension, just like a child jumping on a trampoline. One of the reasons why insects evolved this ability is that they are on a low-energy diet, which requires them to consume large amounts of water and, therefore, pee frequently. However, they pee in droplets and not in jets, like cicadas, because of their tiny size and the impediment of surface tension. Although the practical applications of this work could help design more efficient water-ejector systems for everyday devices, the main reason for the research is to inspire curiosity and ignite children's interest in discovering the marvelous in the mundane.

