# Summary of The Clean Energy Hub of the Future | Rebekah Shirley | TED

Rebekah Shirley, in a TED talk, highlights the need for clean energy systems in Africa and the scarcity of financial flows to help deliver the clean energy potential of the region. She calls for a level playing field for African clean energy start-ups and urges the international community to make accessible clean energy financing at scale an urgent priority. She emphasizes the need for ambitious, time-bound commitments to deliver long-term, low-cost financing and increased concessional financing that targets the least-electrified communities while bolstering local supply chains. Shirley argues that delivering accessible clean energy financing at scale will be a far more productive show of partnership and trust than debating what countries should do with their available resources.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, the speaker highlights that while Africa is the fastest-growing continent, it is also the least electrified and most in need of power systems that can fortify against climate shocks. Many Sub-Saharan African countries already rely on low-carbon resources with Kenya generating 90% of its power from renewables like geothermal and hydropower while Ghana generates over a third of its power from renewable energy resources. However, the financial flows to deliver the clean energy potential remain scarce because international finance markets prioritize risk to capital over risk to human life. African businesses are already leading the path in establishing clean energy in the region, but more international cooperation is needed to deliver finance flows to Africa.

00:05:00
In this section, Rebekah Shirley calls for a level playing field for African clean energy start-ups and urges the international community to make accessible clean energy financing at scale an urgent priority. She highlights the success of young electric mobility start-ups in East Africa and emphasizes the need for fairness and cooperation, rather than charity or victimization. Shirley calls for ambitious, time-bound commitments to deliver long-term, low-cost financing and increased concessional financing that targets the least-electrified communities. She urges programs that expand access to that finance and initiatives that bolster local supply chains, generating value, revenues, employment, and skills at home, saying that delivering accessible, clean energy financing at scale will be a far more productive show of partnership and trust than debating what countries should do with their available resources.

