# Summary of What to trust in a "post-truth" world | Alex Edmans

In a “post-truth” world where people favour a single story over a plethora of data, reason can become lost. In a YouTube video titled “What to trust in a 'post-truth' world”, Alex Edmans, Professor of Finance at London Business School, discusses how mistrust and confirmation bias can lead to the promotion of fictitious stories like Belle Gibson’s, an Australian woman who claimed to have cured her terminal cancer through healthy eating. Edmans advises people to be open to disconfirming theories, seek other viewpoints and listen with the intent to understand, not reply. In a world where data is compiled in large quantities, people must learn to verify its trustworthiness and consider the source of the evidence. Edmans explains how academic evidence, published in top journals, requires years of study to rule out rival theories and to differentiate between correlation and causation. Furthermore, he urges people to pause before sharing any information and ask pertinent questions such as whether a story is true, whether there is large-scale evidence to corroborate it, and whether they would still believe it if they found opposite results in their research.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, it is explained that the story of Belle Gibson, an Australian woman who claimed to have cured her brain cancer with healthy eating, went viral despite the fact that it was untrue. The reason for this is confirmation bias, where people accept uncritically any story that confirms what they want to believe and reject anything that contradicts it. However, even if Belle's story was true, it would still be irrelevant as it only accounts for one case and doesn't consider alternative theories. The problem is that we live in a post-data world where people prefer a single story to a plethora of data. It is essential to remember that ordinary cases are imperative and should not be ignored for outliers.

00:05:00
In this section, Alex Edmans explains that data is just a collection of facts and evidence is data that supports one theory and rules out others. People tend to practice confirmation bias by accepting data as evidence, even if it's consistent with rival theories and misinterpreting data once they receive it. Edmans suggests that people should try to disprove their theories, actively seek other viewpoints, and listen with the intent to understand, not reply. By doing so, individuals can ensure they don't have a story, but evidence, especially during inflection points of life, such as making business and parenting decisions.

00:10:00
In this section, the importance of being open to the possibility of being wrong is discussed. Learning is only relevant to a starting point, and if someone is convinced their theory is right, they won't accept any evidence against it. It is essential to listen to experts to make the correct decisions, but they are commonly seen as out of touch, and there are so many that say different things. The credentials of authors need to be assessed, and papers published in top academic journals should be given particular attention. Academic evidence isn't everything, but it requires years of studying to nail down a result, to rule out rival theories and to differentiate between correlation and causation.

00:15:00
In this section, Alex Edmans discusses the importance of considering the source and vetting of evidence, and acknowledging the limitations of analysis when making sweeping statements. He urges people to pause before sharing anything and to ask themselves important questions such as whether a story is true, whether there is large-scale evidence to support it, and whether they would still believe it if it found opposite results. Edmans stresses that evidence must be true, representative, and supportive in order to guide us towards a pro-truth world.

