# Summary of What if a single human right could change the world? | Kristen Wenz

Kristen Wenz, in her TEDxTalk, highlights the significance of a legal identity and how it is one of the biggest human rights violations of our time, with one billion people still without proof of their existence. Without a legal identity, people can't access government services, routine immunizations, and may fall victim to trafficking and exploitation. Legal identities are necessary for education, healthcare, and opening a bank account, and improved birth registration can lead to better health outcomes, economic gains, and poverty reduction. Kristen suggests five interventions to uphold human rights: reduce the distance, remove the cost, simplify the process, remove discrimination, and increase demand. She highlights the positive impact of addressing legal identity in Angola and Tanzania and encourages collective action to bring about change.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Kristen Wenz explains the importance of a legal identity and how it is one of the greatest human rights violations of our time, with one billion people still without a record of their existence. She gives examples of how without a legal identity, individuals are unable to access government services, routine immunization services, and may fall victim to trafficking and exploitation. She provides statistics showing how this problem is most prevalent in marginal communities who do not have access to public services and are susceptible to being overlooked by the government. Legal identities are also required for basic services like education, healthcare, and opening a bank account, and improved birth registration coverage is connected with better health, economic improvement, and poverty alleviation.

00:05:00
In this section, Kristen Wenz, in her TEDxTalk, discusses five interventions that can be applied to any system to uphold human rights: reduce the distance, remove the cost, simplify the process, remove discrimination, and increase demand. She talks about the importance of registration centers proximity to the target population, simplifying and removing costs from the process, and raising awareness to create demand. She explains that Angola put a policy in place allowing mothers to register their children as a single parent, and through government support, in Tanzania, the new system has increased the birth certificate registration rate to 83% from 13%. Kristen encourages collective action to become the most powerful agents of change in addressing issues of human rights.

