# Summary of What will a future without secrets look like? | Alessandro Acquisti

Alessandro Acquisti explores the shift in boundaries between public and private in the last decade and how this shift affects privacy and anonymity. He discusses how the information, although public, can become sensitive through technological advancements and experiments have shown that an individual's social security number can be inferred from publicly available information. Additionally, he discusses how privacy is necessary to combat discrimination and bias in decision-making and that while policies meant to protect personal data exist they are often insufficient. Acquisti also mentions that privacy can be both the means and the price to pay for freedom, but individuals can still achieve the benefits of big data without infringing on privacy.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Alessandro Acquisti shares his perspective on how the boundaries between public and private have been shifting drastically in the last decade, with more personal information being shared online and collected by organisations. With improvements in facial recognition and cloud computing technologies, any personal information can become sensitive information, and experiments have shown that publicly available information can be used to infer sensitive information, such as social security numbers, linked to an individual's face. This raises questions about our very notions of privacy and anonymity, and the potential tradeoffs that come from giving away our privacy.

00:05:00
In this section, the speaker discusses the potential consequences of living in a future without privacy. While we may believe that having unlimited access to data and information would lead to unbiased decision-making, this is not the case. In fact, people tend to judge others more harshly when they see something of themselves in the situation, leading to moral dissonance. Privacy is not just about having negative things to hide, as experiments show that discrimination and bias already exist even with equally qualified candidates. Furthermore, policies meant to protect personal data, such as transparency, can be misdirected or insufficient in combating abuses of private information.

00:10:00
In this section, Alessandro Acquisti shares that despite the manipulations going on with regards to people's privacy, there are alternatives to the way things are being done, and that the benefits of big data can still be achieved whilst protecting privacy. He mentions that technologies currently exist that allow electronic transactions to take place in a more privacy-preserving manner, and that the benefits of big data can still be enjoyed without infringing on privacy. Acquisti notes that privacy may be both the means and the price to pay for freedom, but that the fight for control over personal information is ongoing and the tools for the fight, like awareness of what is going on, are already in people's hands.

