# Summary of Why helmets don't prevent concussions -- and what might | David Camarillo

David Camarillo, a researcher in biomedical engineering, explains that helmets do not prevent concussions, but he believes his team's work can help to better understand mechanisms behind the phenomenon. Using a device like a mouthguard with accelerometers and gyroscopes, Camarillo can study how a head moves when struck and simulate what happens inside the brain. By measuring rotation of the head, studies found that concussions are more likely to occur when a person's head rotates in a certain direction. Camarillo hopes that slowing the head down just enough so that the brain moves in synchrony with the skull could prevent the mechanism of concussion. Introducing Hövding, a Swedish company that developed an airbag neck collar for cyclists, he expresses his confidence in developing a helmet that could significantly reduce the risk of concussions in the future.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, David Camarillo, a researcher in the field of biomedical engineering, explains that helmets worn during football, bicycling, and many other activities are not designed or tested for their ability to protect against concussion, but rather for their ability to protect against skull fracture. Camarillo's lab is focused on understanding more about the details around concussion to prevent it. He explains that most experts believe it is not possible to prevent concussion, but the work his lab is doing indicates a better understanding of the mechanisms that cause it. Camarillo uses a device like a mouthguard with accelerometers and gyroscopes to understand how someone's head moves when struck, which can help to identify ways in which concussion can be prevented.

00:05:00
In this section, researcher David Camarillo explains how a mouthguard device with a gyroscope can measure rotation of the head and help study live humans in order to understand the details and phenomenon of concussion. The device allows for richer data extraction and with finite element models of the brain, researchers can simulate what happens inside the brain during a concussion. The data shows that concussions are more likely to occur when a person is struck and their head rotates in a certain direction due to the structure of the brain and the stiffness of the falx tissue. The corpus callosum is the wiring that connects the right and left sides of the brain and one of the most common mechanisms of concussion.

00:10:00
In this section, David Camarillo explains that concussions are caused by a dissociation between the right and left brain after the forces move down and strike the corpus callosum. He shows images of a brain with chronic traumatic encephalopathy to support this explanation. However, he believes that if we can slow the head down just enough so that the brain moves in synchrony with the skull, we might be able to prevent this mechanism of concussion. Camarillo introduces a Swedish company called Hövding who has developed an airbag neck collar for cyclists. The neck collar detects when a rider is likely to have a fall and triggers an airbag. In experiments, the neck collar greatly reduces the risk of concussion compared to a normal bicycle helmet. Nevertheless, there are still some challenges, including the need to meet regulations, innovating better test standards, and encouraging innovation.

00:15:00
In this section, David Camarillo expressed his confidence in developing a helmet that could significantly reduce the risk of concussions in the future. He hopes to be able to reassure parents and grandparents that it is safe and healthy for children to engage in activities such as cycling. He noted that his team at Stanford is working hard to create a helmet that can comply with regulatory bodies and make optimal use of the given space. Despite the fear associated with concussions, Camarillo emphasized the importance of hope in developing a solution.

