# Summary of The Moment You Get to Jannah | Ep. 2 | #JannahSeries with Dr. Omar Suleiman

Dr. Omar Suleiman explains the different gates of Jannah that open for people with specific qualities such as the Gate of Salah, the Gate of sadaqah, the Gate of jihad, and the Gate of fasting. There is a specific gate for those who will not be called to account, which is the right-hand gate of Paradise, while the majority of people of Paradise are the poor and downtrodden who will enter first. The pace and place one occupies in Jannah lead to the waiting area outside Jannah, where believers remove all impurities by bathing in one of the two rivers. Moreover, the video describes the special gate reserved for the ummah and how the angels at the gates of Paradise call out to those who have given generously in their lives. Finally, Dr. Omar Suleiman urges viewers to strive to be in the first batch of people to enter Jannah.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Dr. Omar Suleiman explains that people to enter Jannah at different points and occupy different ranks. There is a specific gate for those who will not be called to account, which is the right-hand gate of Paradise, while the majority of people of Paradise are the poor and downtrodden who will get to go first. However, if a person used their blessings right, they still have a higher place even if the poor will get in faster and lighter. The pace and place one occupies in Jannah lead to the waiting area outside Jannah, where believers remove all impurities by bathing in one of the two rivers under a tree. The eight gates of paradise open for people with specific qualities such as the Gate of Salah, the Gate of sadaqah, the Gate of jihad, and the Gate of fasting, among others. However, there are gifts from Allah that open all eight Gates of Paradise even if a person does not have all the qualities because one cannot do a perfect Dura without a perfect Rule.

00:05:00
In this section, Dr. Omar Suleiman discusses the gates of paradise and the special gate reserved for the ummah. The gate is as wide as the distance covered by a rider in several years, and the ummah will be squeezed until their shoulders are about to dislocate. Abu Bakr expresses his wish to see the gate, and the Prophet assures him that he will be the first one to enter through that gate with him. The metaphorical key to paradise is the deeds of the ummah, and Allah grants them a passport to enter Jannah. The gates of paradise are slowly opened with revealing beauty, and the inhabitants of Jannah enter together in groups. Conversely, the inhabitants of Hellfire are cursing each other as they are thrown in. Finally, Dr. Omar Suleiman shares that the Angel at the gate of paradise is calling for whoever gives a good loan today to be rewarded tomorrow.

00:10:00
In this section, the video describes the gates of Paradise and how the angels call out to those who have given generously in their lives. The angels call out from the highest places of the gates of Paradise, asking Allah to give back even more to those who have given and to bring destruction to those who have withheld. The narrator urges viewers to think about how many times the gates of sadaqah called out to them while they were alive and to imagine how eager the gates of Paradise are for those who have given generously in this life. The narrator encourages viewers to rattle their gates and strive to be in the first batch of people to enter Paradise.

