# Summary of Music’s power over your brain, explained | Michael Spitzer

Source: https://youtube.com/watch?v=wAafVviGxhk

The author discusses how music has a power over the brain that is similar to that of emotions. When the brain sees an action, it doesn't have to move to experience that motion; instead, the mirror neurons are responding sympathetically. Yawns are contagious, and when I see you yawning, I yawn back. But also emotions are contagious. When I hear a sad song, my body, my mirror neurons, are instinctively sympathizing, are mimicking, and are mirroring the sadness of the song. Emotion isn't just feeling; it has an adaptive role as well, helping us to survive. Music is full of similar responses, known as the chills, or frisson, or the sublime. These moments are often triggered by breakthrough moments in loudness or extremity, and you have the same parts of the brain which respond to fear as you do to music which has been called "the chills." But you enjoy this fear, and this is very strange.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
The author explains how music has a power over the brain, specifically relating to the ability to predict what will happen next and the experience of being halfway between the birds in the heavens and the whales in the ocean. He goes on to say that the condition of being human- midway between the birds in the heavens and the whales in the ocean- allows us to situate ourselves and that birdsong is as jerky as the motions of the bird. Just as whales have a much more fluid rhythm of floating through their own medium, human music reflects walking and this also gives humans their fascination with metaphor that music moves. Finally, the author discusses how music is an excellent way of tagging memories, remembering the past-expressing your deepest emotions, and identity, which can't be captured by language.

00:05:00
Michael Spitzer explains that music has a power over the brain that is similar to that of emotions. When the brain sees an action, it doesn't have to move to experience that motion; instead, the mirror neurons are responding sympathetically. Yawns are contagious, and when I see you yawning, I yawn back. But also emotions are contagious. When I hear a sad song, my body, my mirror neurons, are instinctively sympathizing, are mimicking, and are mirroring the sadness of the song. Emotion isn't just feeling; it has an adaptive role as well, helping us to survive. Happiness is when we achieve a goal, anger is when the goal is blocked, sadness is when we lose a loved one, and fear is the most archetypal emotion. Music is full of similar responses, known as the chills, or frisson, or the sublime. These moments are often triggered by breakthrough moments in loudness or extremity, and you have the same parts of the brain which respond to fear as you do to music which has been called "the chills." But you enjoy this fear, and this is very strange.

