# Summary of Ray Kurzweil: The Coming Singularity | Big Think

Ray Kurzweil discusses the exponential growth of information technology and its potential to simulate the human brain. He believes that by 2029, we will have completed the reverse engineering of the brain and be able to model all its regions, providing us with algorithmic methods to simulate human capabilities. However, Kurzweil acknowledges the dangers of technology and has devoted much of his work to developing ways of combating these threats. He is concerned about the downsides of technology and the new dangers that they may pose, acknowledging that his vision of the future is not utopian. The ability for a bio-terrorist to reprogram a biological virus is an existential risk that we need to deal with very quickly. While technology has helped humans in many ways, we need to address the dangers and downsides that come with it.

Detail Summary: 
00:00:00
In this section, Ray Kurzweil discusses the exponential growth of information technology and its potential to simulate the human brain. By 2029, he believes that we will have completed the reverse engineering of the brain and be able to model all its regions, providing us with algorithmic methods to simulate human capabilities. Machines will become far more intelligent than humans and be combined with superior abilities such as the ability to remember billions of things accurately, share knowledge at a million times faster than human language, and more. However, he notes that the singularity, which will start a new revolution of exponential growth in power, is not an alien invasion of intelligent machines but rather an expansion of our civilization. Kurzweil acknowledges the dangers of technology and has devoted much of his work to developing ways of combating these threats.

00:05:00
In this section, Kurzweil discusses the negative aspects of technology and acknowledges that his vision of a future is not utopian. He is concerned about the downsides of technology and the new dangers that they may pose. Kurzweil is optimistic about the future, but he is not convinced that we won't encounter painful episodes. The ability for a bio-terrorist to reprogram a biological virus is an existential risk that we need to deal with very quickly. While technology has helped humans in many ways, such as with increased life expectancy, we need to address the dangers and downsides that come with it.

